---
title: "Masi Periyasamy"
date: 2022-04-24T17:51:18+05:30
draft: false
layout: "attraction"
url: "attractions/masiperiasamytemple"
img: "/img/1280px-Agaya_Gangai.jpg"
---

Also known as Kollimalai Masi Periasamy is a deity and Kuladeivam of the Hindu people. He is a great deity and sage who lived in Kollimalai, near Namakkal, Tamil Nadu. Legend says he appear there for more than 1000 years ago. When Masi Periasamy was travelling all over the world, he passed by Kollimalai by taking huge gigantic physical body (Mahima Sitthi). He jumped over 6 hills but all became weak and unstable. Lastly, he jumped onto the Kollimalai, and found that the hill really strong for him to reside. 
In the ancient time, He is only known as Muni, however, He was named Periasamy (Big God) as he appeared with Gigantic Body, and Masi Month is the celebration month for him. Usually the celebration is celebrated on star Uthiram, star of Sun (the symbol of Leader). Masi Periasamy is the very powerful compared to small deity as he is a Divine Sage (Muni). He is usually prayed by Local Brahmin, Sozhiya Pallar, Sozhiya vellalar and Muthuraja (Muthirayar) people as Kuladeivam. He is considered as the Most Powerful Kuladeivam among Tamil Nadu Deities. He has another one famous temple in kallathukombai near veirychettypalayam in the foot hills of Kolli hills. More than 100 thousand people consider this temple as their deity. Temple in kallathukombai is under control of Sozhiya Vellalar. The form of Masi Periasamy in the temple is really tremendous as he is holding a Vel at right hand side, with big moustache and talapa and sit on Vengai Puli. The form itself shows he is a Bravest Sage. A person who is really sincere to him would get all the blessings, happiness, luck, health, wealth and spiritual improvement. Nowadays, people from various countries like Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, America, Mauritius, Hong Kong with various family background, casted and religion come to his Temple which is at peak of the Kollimalai (1250 metres above the sea). None of the any Kuladeivam resides at this top. Around Namakkal and Trichy area, we also could see many Kodangi (fortune tellers with udukkai - small hand drum) say Divine Vaakku (Divine Prediction) with the blessing of Masi Periasamy and another famous Periyasami temple is in muthukappatti is called ottadi periyanna Periyasami. It is was very powerful temple and it has been there for long time but it was not had figure so in 1989 veerapapillai kamachi ammaal family from Erode kept the 5 1/2 feet statue of Periyasami and now it is very popular in that area and Tamil Nadu government took responsibility and maintaining now.
Every year, Tamil month of Masi (Feb-Mar) annual celebration would be done grandly. This Thiruvizha would be done by 8 villages. Goat offering would be given in the Thiruvizha. This is the right time to see Thiruvizha at the peak of Kollimalai (Kolli Hill).